README.markdown, before:

JSLintMate
==========

Quick, simple **JSLint (or JSHint) in TextMate**. Hurt your feelings in style.

JSLintMate uses Ruby and [JSC][jsc] behind the scenes; both are part of OS X by
default. No need to install anything else. Everything works offline.

<img src="https://github.com/rondevera/jslintmate/raw/master/Support/images/jslintmate-screenshots.png"
  alt="JSLintMate screenshots" width="892" height="525" />

(CSS geeks: Only three images are used throughout the UI. The red, striped
error uses only CSS.)

*What are these things?* [JSLint][jslint] is a powerful JS code quality tool
from expert Douglas Crockford. [JSHint][jshint] is a community-driven project
based on JSLint, and doesn't hurt your feelings so much. They're not the same
as [JavaScript Lint][javascriptlint], but awesome nonetheless.

[jsc]:            http://trac.webkit.org/wiki/JSC
[jslint]:         http://jslint.com
[jshint]:         http://jshint.com
[javascriptlint]: http://www.javascriptlint.com/


Setup
-----

[Download JSLintMate.tmbundle][download] and double-click it.
TextMate should install it for you automatically&mdash;that's all.

Or via Git:

    mkdir -p ~/Library/Application\ Support/TextMate/Bundles
    cd ~/Library/Application\ Support/TextMate/Bundles
    git clone git://github.com/rondevera/jslintmate.git "JSLintMate.tmbundle"
    osascript -e 'tell app "TextMate" to reload bundles'
      # If the last command returns an error, switch to TextMate,
      # then select Bundles > Bundle Editor > Reload Bundles.

    # Update to latest version:
    git pull

[download]: https://github.com/downloads/rondevera/jslintmate/JSLintMate-1.1.tmbundle.zip


Usage
-----

1.  Open a JS file in TextMate.
2.  Hit **control-L** to run it through JSLint (or **control-shift-L** for
    JSHint), and a list of errors appears.
3.  Click an error to jump to that line in the file. Fix and repeat.

This bundle doesn't run JSLint/JSHint on save because doing so can incur
noticeable overhead.


Options
-------

If JSLint or JSHint are too strict or lenient for your taste, you can set
options for each. These options serve as a barebones code style guide, and let
teammates keep their standards synced. Three ways to do this:

* Set options at the **top of each JS file**:

    Adding options atop each JS file gives you fine-grained control. For
    example:

          /*jslint  browser:  true,
                    eqeqeq:   true,
                    immed:    false,
                    newcap:   true,
                    nomen:    false,
                    onevar:   true,
                    plusplus: false,
                    undef:    true,
                    white:    false */
          /*global  window, jQuery, $, MyApp */

    This example is specifically for JSLint. To use it with JSHint, just
    change `/*jslint` to `/*jshint`.

* Specify a **YAML config file**:

    A YAML file is great for sharing options with project
    collaborators&mdash;everyone uses the same options for all JS files, and
    different projects can have different options. The simple YAML config file
    used by [jslint\_on\_rails][jslint_on_rails config] is a good example.
    Setup:

    1.  Within TextMate, go to *Bundles > Bundle Editor > Edit Commands*.
    2.  Expand *JavaScript JSLintMate* and highlight *Run JSLintMate*.
    3.  Add the config file path as `--linter-options-file`. For example
        (customize the file path as needed; no line breaks):

              ruby path/to/jslintmate.rb --linter-options-file="$TM_PROJECT_DIRECTORY/config/jslint.yml"

    If the config file is missing from any of your projects, JSLintMate uses
    its built-in default options instead.

* Specify **global JSLint/JSHint options** for use across projects:

    1.  Within TextMate, go to *Bundles > Bundle Editor > Edit Commands*.
    2.  Expand *JavaScript JSLintMate* and highlight *Run JSLintMate*.
    3.  Add your list of options as `--linter-options`. For example (no line
        breaks):

              ruby path/to/jslintmate.rb --linter-options=browser=true,onevar=false

You can specify `--linter-options` and `--linter-options-file` together. The
order of precedence is:

1.  Highest precedence: Options in the JS file, e.g.,
    `/*jslint browser: true */`
2.  YAML config file (via `--linter-options-file`)
3.  Custom bundle options (via `--linter-options`)
4.  JSLintMate's default options

All default options are included, then merged with and overridden by higher
precedence options.

Note that you can have different options for JSLint and JSHint simply by
modifying the "Run JSLintMate" and "Run JSLintMate with JSHint" commands
separately.

For more info, read about [JSLint's options][jslint options] and
[JSHint's options][jshint options].

[jslint_on_rails config]: https://github.com/psionides/jslint_on_rails/blob/master/lib/jslint/config/jslint.yml
[jslint options]:  http://jslint.com/lint.html#options
[jshint options]:  http://jshint.com/#docs


JSLint/JSHint builds
--------------------

If you're using a custom build of JSLint/JSHint, or want to use and maintain
your own copy of their edge builds, you can modify the JSLintMate bundle
to point to your copy:

    # JSLint:
    ruby path/to/jslintmate.rb --linter-file="$TM_PROJECT_DIRECTORY/lib/jslint.js"

    # JSHint:
    ruby path/to/jslintmate.rb --linter=jshint --linter-file="$TM_PROJECT_DIRECTORY/lib/jslint.js"


About
-----

- **Contributing:** Found a bug or have a suggestion? [Please open an
  issue][issues] or ping [@ronalddevera on Twitter][twitter]. If you want to
  hack on some features, feel free to fork and send a pull request.
  Development happens in the [development branch][dev branch].
- **History:** [History/changelog for JSLintMate][history]
- **Compatibility:** Tested with OS X 10.6, WebKit 531+ (Safari 4+), and
  TextMate 1.5.10. Probably works with older software, but not guaranteed.

This project is adapted from:

- <http://www.phpied.com/jslint-on-mac-textmate/>
- <http://wonko.com/post/pretty-jslint-output-for-textmate>
- <http://blog.pulletsforever.com/2009/07/09/running_jslint_with_safaris_javascript_core/>

JSLintMate is released under the [MIT License][license]. The bundle contains
copies of JSLint and JSHint, which use their own license(s). Use JSLintMate
for good, not evil.

[issues]:     https://github.com/rondevera/jslintmate/issues
[twitter]:    https://twitter.com/ronalddevera
[dev branch]: https://github.com/rondevera/jslintmate/commits/development
[history]:    https://github.com/rondevera/jslintmate/blob/master/HISTORY
[license]:    https://github.com/rondevera/jslintmate/blob/master/LICENSE

Commit message:

Add short git.io URL to readme

README.markdown, after:

JSLintMate
==========

Quick, simple **JSLint (or JSHint) in TextMate**. Hurt your feelings in style.

JSLintMate uses Ruby and [JSC][jsc] behind the scenes; both are part of OS X by
default. No need to install anything else. Everything works offline.

<img src="https://github.com/rondevera/jslintmate/raw/master/Support/images/jslintmate-screenshots.png"
  alt="JSLintMate screenshots" width="892" height="525" />

(CSS geeks: Only three images are used throughout the UI. The red, striped
error uses only CSS.)

*What are these things?* [JSLint][jslint] is a powerful JS code quality tool
from expert Douglas Crockford. [JSHint][jshint] is a community-driven project
based on JSLint, and doesn't hurt your feelings so much. They're not the same
as [JavaScript Lint][javascriptlint], but awesome nonetheless.

[jsc]:            http://trac.webkit.org/wiki/JSC
[jslint]:         http://jslint.com
[jshint]:         http://jshint.com
[javascriptlint]: http://www.javascriptlint.com/


Setup
-----

[Download JSLintMate.tmbundle][download] and double-click it.
TextMate should install it for you automatically&mdash;that's all.

Or via Git:

    mkdir -p ~/Library/Application\ Support/TextMate/Bundles
    cd ~/Library/Application\ Support/TextMate/Bundles
    git clone git://github.com/rondevera/jslintmate.git "JSLintMate.tmbundle"
    osascript -e 'tell app "TextMate" to reload bundles'
      # If the last command returns an error, switch to TextMate,
      # then select Bundles > Bundle Editor > Reload Bundles.

    # Update to latest version:
    git pull

[download]: https://github.com/downloads/rondevera/jslintmate/JSLintMate-1.1.tmbundle.zip


Usage
-----

1.  Open a JS file in TextMate.
2.  Hit **control-L** to run it through JSLint (or **control-shift-L** for
    JSHint), and a list of errors appears.
3.  Click an error to jump to that line in the file. Fix and repeat.

This bundle doesn't run JSLint/JSHint on save because doing so can incur
noticeable overhead.


Options
-------

If JSLint or JSHint are too strict or lenient for your taste, you can set
options for each. These options serve as a barebones code style guide, and let
teammates keep their standards synced. Three ways to do this:

* Set options at the **top of each JS file**:

    Adding options atop each JS file gives you fine-grained control. For
    example:

          /*jslint  browser:  true,
                    eqeqeq:   true,
                    immed:    false,
                    newcap:   true,
                    nomen:    false,
                    onevar:   true,
                    plusplus: false,
                    undef:    true,
                    white:    false */
          /*global  window, jQuery, $, MyApp */

    This example is specifically for JSLint. To use it with JSHint, just
    change `/*jslint` to `/*jshint`.

* Specify a **YAML config file**:

    A YAML file is great for sharing options with project
    collaborators&mdash;everyone uses the same options for all JS files, and
    different projects can have different options. The simple YAML config file
    used by [jslint\_on\_rails][jslint_on_rails config] is a good example.
    Setup:

    1.  Within TextMate, go to *Bundles > Bundle Editor > Edit Commands*.
    2.  Expand *JavaScript JSLintMate* and highlight *Run JSLintMate*.
    3.  Add the config file path as `--linter-options-file`. For example
        (customize the file path as needed; no line breaks):

              ruby path/to/jslintmate.rb --linter-options-file="$TM_PROJECT_DIRECTORY/config/jslint.yml"

    If the config file is missing from any of your projects, JSLintMate uses
    its built-in default options instead.

* Specify **global JSLint/JSHint options** for use across projects:

    1.  Within TextMate, go to *Bundles > Bundle Editor > Edit Commands*.
    2.  Expand *JavaScript JSLintMate* and highlight *Run JSLintMate*.
    3.  Add your list of options as `--linter-options`. For example (no line
        breaks):

              ruby path/to/jslintmate.rb --linter-options=browser=true,onevar=false

You can specify `--linter-options` and `--linter-options-file` together. The
order of precedence is:

1.  Highest precedence: Options in the JS file, e.g.,
    `/*jslint browser: true */`
2.  YAML config file (via `--linter-options-file`)
3.  Custom bundle options (via `--linter-options`)
4.  JSLintMate's default options

All default options are included, then merged with and overridden by higher
precedence options.

Note that you can have different options for JSLint and JSHint simply by
modifying the "Run JSLintMate" and "Run JSLintMate with JSHint" commands
separately.

For more info, read about [JSLint's options][jslint options] and
[JSHint's options][jshint options].

[jslint_on_rails config]: https://github.com/psionides/jslint_on_rails/blob/master/lib/jslint/config/jslint.yml
[jslint options]:  http://jslint.com/lint.html#options
[jshint options]:  http://jshint.com/#docs


JSLint/JSHint builds
--------------------

If you're using a custom build of JSLint/JSHint, or want to use and maintain
your own copy of their edge builds, you can modify the JSLintMate bundle
to point to your copy:

    # JSLint:
    ruby path/to/jslintmate.rb --linter-file="$TM_PROJECT_DIRECTORY/lib/jslint.js"

    # JSHint:
    ruby path/to/jslintmate.rb --linter=jshint --linter-file="$TM_PROJECT_DIRECTORY/lib/jslint.js"


About
-----

- **Sharing:** Link to the [official JSLintMate page][website] or use the
  [short URL][shorturl] for this repo!
- **Contributing:** Found a bug or have a suggestion? [Please open an
  issue][issues] or ping [@ronalddevera on Twitter][twitter]. If you want to
  hack on some features, feel free to fork and send a pull request.
  Development happens in the [development branch][dev branch].
- **History:** [History/changelog for JSLintMate][history]
- **Compatibility:** Tested with OS X 10.6, WebKit 531+ (Safari 4+), and
  TextMate 1.5.10. Probably works with older software, but not guaranteed.

This project is adapted from:

- <http://www.phpied.com/jslint-on-mac-textmate/>
- <http://wonko.com/post/pretty-jslint-output-for-textmate>
- <http://blog.pulletsforever.com/2009/07/09/running_jslint_with_safaris_javascript_core/>

JSLintMate is released under the [MIT License][license]. The bundle contains
copies of JSLint and JSHint, which use their own license(s). Use JSLintMate
for good, not evil.

[website]:    http://rondevera.github.com/jslintmate/
[shorturl]:   http://git.io/jslintmate
[issues]:     https://github.com/rondevera/jslintmate/issues
[twitter]:    https://twitter.com/ronalddevera
[dev branch]: https://github.com/rondevera/jslintmate/commits/development
[history]:    https://github.com/rondevera/jslintmate/blob/master/HISTORY
[license]:    https://github.com/rondevera/jslintmate/blob/master/LICENSE
